<!-- TOC -->

- [Section 1](#section-1)
    - [【原文】](#原文)
    - [【单词释义】](#单词释义)
- [Section 2](#section-2)
    - [【原文】](#原文-1)
    - [【单词释义】](#单词释义-1)
- [Section 3](#section-3)
    - [【原文】](#原文-2)
    - [【单词释义】](#单词释义-2)
- [Section 4](#section-4)
    - [【原文】](#原文-3)
    - [【单词释义】](#单词释义-3)

<!-- /TOC -->

### Section 1

#### 【原文】

**Sheldon:** So if a photon is directed through a plane with two slits in it and either slit observed, it will not go through both slits. If it's unobserved, it will. However, if it's observed after it's left the plane but before it hits its target, it won't have gone through both slits.  
**Leonard:** Agreed. What's your point?  
**Sheldon:** There's not point, I just think it's a good idea for a t-shirt.  
**Leonard:** Excuse me.  
**Docter:** Hang on.  
**Leonard:** One across is "aegean", eight down is "nabokov", twenty six across is "MCM", fourteen down is ... move your finger ... "phylum" which makes fourteen across "port-au-prince". See Papa Doc's capitol idea, that's "port-au-prince" ... Haiti.  
**Docter:** Can I help you?  
**Leonard:** Yes. Is this the high-iq sperm bank?  
**Docter:** If you have to ask, maybe you shouldn't be here.  
**Sheldon:** I think this is the place.  
**Docter:** Fill these out.  
**Leonard:** Thank you, we'll be right back.  
**Docter:** Oh, take your time, I'll just finish my crossword puzzle ... Oh wait ...  
**Sheldon:** Leonard, I don't think I can do this.  
**Leonard:** What are you kidding? you're a semi-pro.  
**Sheldon:** No. We are committing genetic fraud. There's no guarantee that our sperm is going to generate high iq offspring. Think about that. I have a sister with the same basic DNA mix who hostesses at fuddruckers.  
**Leonard:** Sheldon, this was your idea. A little extra money to get fractional T1 bandwidth in the apartment.  
**Sheldon:** I know, and I do yearn for faster downloads. But there's some poor wuman who's gonna pin her hopes on my sperm. What if she winds up with a toddler who doesn't know if he should use an integral or a differential to solve the area under a curve?  
**Leonard:** I'm sure she'll still love him.  
**Sheldon:** I wouldn't.  
**Leonard:** Well, what do you want to do?  
**Sheldon:** I want to leave.  
**Leonard:** Ok.  
**Sheldon:** What's the protocol for leaving?  
**Leonard:** I don't know. I've never reneged on a proffer of sperm before.  
**Sheldon:** Let's try just walking out.  
**Leonard:** Ok...  
**Docter:** Bye.  
**Sheldon:** Bye...  
**Leonard:** Bye, Nice meeting you.  

#### 【单词释义】

photon : n.光子  
plane : 飞机，水平面，平原  
slit : v.切开、撕裂，n.裂缝  
observe : v.观察  
hang on : v.稍等  
aegean : n.爱琴海  
nabokov : n.纳博科夫（俄裔美国小说家）  
MCM : n.Mode CreationMunich(奢侈时装品牌)  
phylum : n.门（生物分类）  
PORT-AU-PRINCE ： n.太子港（海地首都）  
Papa Doc : n.海地总统绰号  
sperm : n.精子  
crossword : n.填字游戏  
puzzle : n.难题  
semi-pro : n.半职业选手  
genetic : adj.遗传的  
fraud : n.骗局  
guarantee : v.保证; n.保证  
offspring : n.子孙，后代  
mix : v.混合，调配； n.混合，调配  
hostesses : n.礼仪小姐，主持人  
Fuddruckers : n.快餐店名  
extra : adj.额外的; adv.额外地  
fractional : adj.分开的，部分的  
bandwidth : n.带宽  
yearn : v.向往；n.怀念  
poor : v.贫苦的，可怜的  
pin hope ... : adj.寄希望于...  
wind up : v.结束  
toddler : n.婴儿，幼儿  
integral : n.积分  
differential : n.微分  
curve : n.曲线  
protocol : n.协议，约定，礼仪  
renege on : v.拒绝，背叛  
proffer : n.提供  


### Section 2

#### 【原文】

**Sheldon:** Are you still mad about the sperm bank?  
**Leonard:** No.  
**Sheldon:** You want to hear an interesting thing about stairs?  
**Leonard:** Not really.  
**Sheldon:** If the height of a single step is off by as little as two millimeters, most people will trip.  
**Leonard:** I don't care ... ... Two milli ... That doesn't seem right.  
**Sheldon:** No, it's true. I did a series of experiments when I was twelve. My father broke his clavicle.  
**Leonard:** Is that why they sent you to boarding school?  
**Sheldon:** No, that was a result of my work with lasers.  
**Leonard:** New neighbor?  
**Sheldon:** Evidently.  
**Leonard:** Significant improvement over the old neighbor.  
**Sheldon:** Two hundred pound transvestite with a skin condition? Yes She is.  
**Penny:** Oh, hi.  
**Leonard:** Hi...  
**Sheldon:** Hi...  
**Leonard:** Hi...  
**Sheldon:** Hi...  
**Penny:** Hi...  
**Leonard:** We don't mean to interrupt, we live across the hall.  
**Penny:** Oh, that's nice.  
**Leonard:** Oh, we don't live together, I mean... We live together but in separate, heterosexual bedrooms.  
**Penny:** Ok, Oh. Guess I'm your new neighbor. Penny.  
**Leonard:** Leonard, Sheldon.  
**Penny:** Hi.  
**Leonard:** Hi...  
**Sheldon:** Hi...  
**Penny:** Hi.  
**Leonard:** Hi... Well... Welcome to the building.  
**Penny:** Thank you. Maybe we can have coffee somethime.  
**Leonard:** Oh, great.  
**Penny:** Great.  
**Sheldon:** Great.  
**Leonard:** Great... Well bye...  
**Penny:** Bye.  
**Sheldon:** Bye.  
**Leonard:** Bye. Should we have invited her for lauch?  
**Sheldon:** No. We're gonna start season two of battlestar galactica.  
**Leonard:** We already watched the season two dvds.  
**Sheldon:** Not with commentary.  
**Leonard:** I think we should be good neighbors and invite her over make her feel welcome.  
**Sheldon:** We never invited louie-slash-louise over.  
**Leonard:** And that was wrong of us.  We need to widen our circle.  
**Sheldon:** I have a very wide circle. I have two hundred twelve friends on myspace.  
**Leonard:** Yes, and you've never met one of them.  
**Sheldon:** That's the beauty of it.  
**Leonard:** I'm gonna invite her over. We'll have nice meal and ... chat.  
**Sheldon:** Chat? We don't chat, at least not offline.  
**Leonard:** It's not difficult.  You just listen to what she says, and then you say something appropriate in response.  
**Sheldon:** To what end?  
**Leonard:** Hi ... again ...  
**Penny:** Hi.  
**Sheldon:** Hi.  
**Leonard:** Hi.  
**Penny:** Hi.  
**Leonard:** Anyway... We brought home indian food, and ... I know that moving can be stressful, and I find that when I'm undergoing stress, that good food and company can have a comforting effect. Also, curry is a natural laxative, and I don't have to tell you. That you know, a clean colon is just ... one less thing to worry about.  
**Sheldon:** I'm not expert, but I believe in the context of a luncheon invitation, you might want to skip the reference to bowel movements.  
**Penny:** Oh, you're inviting me over to eat?  
**Leonard:** Yes.  
**Penny:** Oh, that's so nice. I'd love to.  
**Leonard:** Great.  
**Penny:** So, what do you guys do for fun around here?  
**Sheldon:** Well, today we tried masturbating for money. 

#### 【单词释义】

mad : adj.生气，发疯  
height : n.高度  
be off by ... : 存在差距  
as little as ... : 至少  
millimeters : n.毫米  
experiment : n.实验；v.实验  
clavicle : n.锁骨  
board : n.板材  
boarding : n.寄宿  
lasers : n.激光  
neighbor : n.邻居  
evidently : adv.显然地  
Significant : adj.显著的，重大的  
improvement : n.提高  
transvestite : n.异装癖者  
skin : n.皮肤  
condition : n.状况，状态，健康状况，疾病; v.训练，使适应  
interrupt : v.打断，打扰  
hall : n.门厅，正门过道  
heterosexual : adj.异性恋的; n.异性恋  
battlestar galactica : n.太空堡垒卡拉狄加  
commentary : n.评论，实况报道，现场解说;  
slash : n.斜线  
appropriate : adj.适当的  
stressful : adj.压力重的,有压力的  
undergoing : v.经历，经受  
company : n.伙伴，公司  
comforting : adj.令人安慰的；n.安慰，抚慰
effect : n.影响，效果  
curry : n.咖喱  
laxative : n.通便剂  
colon : n.冒号，结肠  
expert : n.专家，能手; adj.熟练的;内行的; vi.以专家身份研究  
bowel : n.肠  
masturbating : n.自慰  


### Section 3

#### 【原文】

**Leonard:** Okay, make yourself at home.  
**Penny:** Thank you.  
**Leonard:** You're very welcome.  
**Penny:** This looks like some serious stuff.  Leonard, did you do this? 
**Sheldon:** Actually, that's my work.  
**Penny:** Wow.  
**Sheldon:** Yeah. Well, it's just some quantum mechanics with a little string theory doodling around the edges.  That part there, that's just a joke.  It's a spoof of the Born-Oppenheimer approximation.  
**Pennty:** So you're like one of those beautiful mind genius guys.  
**Sheldon:** Yeah.  
**Pennty:** This is really impressive.  
**Leonard:** I have a board. If you like board, this is my board.  
**Pennty:** Holy smokes.  
**Sheldon:** If by "holy smokes" you mean a derivative restatement of the kind of stuff you can find scribbled on the wall of any men's room at MIT, sure.  
**Leonard:** What?  
**Sheldon:** Come on. Who hasn't seen this differential below "here I sit, broken-hearted"?  
**Leonard:** At least I didn't have to invent 26 dimensions just to make the math come out.  
**Sheldon:** I didn't invent them, they're there.  
**Leonard:** In what universe?  
**Sheldon:** In all of them, that is the point.  
**Penny:** Do you guys mind if I start?  
**Sheldon:** Emmm ... Penny ... That's where I sit.  
**Penny:** So sit next to me.  
**Sheldon:** No, I sit there.  
**Penny:** What's the difference?  
**Sheldon:** What's the difference?  
**Leonard:** Here we go.  
**Sheldon:** In the winter, that seat is close enough to the radiator to remain-warm, and yet not so close as to cause perspiration. In the summer, it's directly in the path of a cross-breeze created by opening windows there and there. It faces the television at an angle, that is neither direct, thus discouraging conversation, nor so far wide as to create a parallax distortion. I could go on, but I think I've made my point.  
**Penny:** Do you want me to move?  
**Sheldon:** Well ...  
**Leonard:** Just sit somewhere else.  
**Sheldon:** Fine.  
**Leonard:** Sheldon, sit. Well, this is nice. We don't have a lot of company over.  
**Sheldon:** That's not true. Koothrappali and wolowitz come over all the time.  
**Leonard:** Yes I know, but ...  
**Sheldon:** Tuesday night we played klingon boggle until 1:00 in the morning.  
**Leonard:** Yeah, I remember.  
**Sheldon:** I reject to say we don't company.  
**Leonard:** Sorry.  
**Sheldon:** That has negative social implications.  
**Leonard:** I said I'm sorry.  
**Penny:** Klingon boggle?  
**Leonard:** Yeah. It's like regular boggle but in Klingon. That's probably enough about us. So tell us about you.  
**Penny:** Me? Okay. I'm a Sagittarius, which probably tells you way more than you need to know.  
**Sheldon:** Yes. It tells us that you participate in the mass cultural delusion, that the sun's apparent position relative to arbitrarily defined constellations at the time of your birth somehow affects your personality. 
**Penny:** Participate in the what?  
**Leonard:** I think what Sheldon's trying to say, is that Sagittarius wouldn't have been our first guess.  
**Penny:** Oh, yeah. A lot of people think I'm a water sign. Okay, let's see what else. Oh, I'm a vegetarian except for fish and the occasional steak. I love steak.  
**Sheldon:** Well, that's interesting. Leonard can't process corn.  
**Leonard:** Well... Do you have some sort of a job?  
**Penny:** Yeah. I'm a waitress at the cheesecake factory.  
**Leonard:** I love cheesecake.  
**Sheldon:** You're lactose-intolerant.  
**Leonard:** I don't eat it... I just think it's a good idea.  
**Penny:** Oh, anyways. I'm also writing a screenplay. It's about this sensitive girl who comes to l.a. from Lincoln, Nebraska to be an actress and winds up a waitress at the cheesecake factory.  
**Leonard:** So, it's based on your life.  
**Penny:** No, I'm from omaha.  
**Leonard:** So if that was movie, I would go see it. 
**Penny:** I know, right? Let's see what else... Guess that's about it. That's the story of penny.  
**Leonard:** Well it sounds wonderful.  
**Penny:** I was... Until I fell in love with a jerk.  
**Sheldon:** What's happening?  
**Penny:** God, you know. Four years I lived with him. Four years... that's like as long as high school.  
**Sheldon:** It took you four years to get through high school?  
**Penny:** It just... I can't believe I trusted him.  
**Leonard:** Should I say something? I feel like I should say something.  
**Sheldon:** You? No. you'll only make it worse.  
**Penny:** You want to know the most pathetic part? Even though I hate his lying, cheating guts, I still love him. Is that crazy?  
**Sheldon:** Yes.  
**Leonard:** No, it's not crazy. It's a... It's a paradox. Paradoxes are part of nature. Think about light. If you look at Huygens, light is a wave, as confirmed by the double-slit experiments. But then along comes Albert Einstein and discovers that light behaves like particles, too. Well I didn't make it worse.  
**Penny:** I'm so sorry. I'm such a mess. On top of everything else, I'm all gross from moving, and my stupid shower doesn't even work.  
**Leonard:** Our shower works.  
**Penny:** Realy? Would it be totally weird if I ussed it?  
**Sheldon:** Yes.  
**Loenard:** No.  
**Sheldon:** No?  
**Loenard:** No.  
**Sheldon:** No.  
**Loenard:** It's right down the hall.  
**Penny:** Thanks. You guys are really sweet.  
**Sheldon:** Well, this is an interesting development.  
**Loenard:** How so?  
**Sheldon:** It has been some time since we've had a woman take her clothes off in our apartment.  
**Loenard:** That's not ture. Remember at thanksgiving my grandmother with alzheimer's had that episode?  
**Sheldon:** Point taken. It has been some time since we've had a woman take her clothes off after which we didn't want to rip our eyes out.  
**Loenard:** The worst part was watching her carve that turkey.  
**Sheldon:** So what exactly are you trying to accomplish here?  
**Loenard:** Excuse me?  
**Sheldon:** That woman is not going to have sex with you.  
**Loenard:** I'm not trying to have sex with her.  
**Sheldon:** Oh good. Then you won't be disappointed.  
**Loenard:** What makes you think she wouldn't have sex with me? I'm a male and she's a female.  
**Sheldon:** Yes, but not of the same species.  
**Leonard:** I'm not going to engage in hypotheticals here. I'm just trying to be a good neighbor.  
**Sheldon:** Oh, of course.  
**Leonard:** That's not to say that if a carnal relationship were to develop, that I wouldn't participate. However briefly.  
**Sheldon:** Do you think this possibility will be helped or hindered when she discovers your Luke Skywalker No-More-Tears shamppo?  
**Leonard:** It's Darth Vader shampoo. Luck Skywalker's the conditioner.  
**Howard:** Wait till you see this.  
**Rajesh:** It's fantastic, unbelievable.  
**Leonard:** See what?  
**Howard:** It's a Stephen Hawking lecture from MIT in Nineteen Seventy Four.  
**Leonard:** This isn't a good time.  
**Howard:** It's before he became a creepy computer voice.  
**Leonard:** That's great. You guys have to go.  
**Rajesh:** Why?  
**Leonard:** It's just not a good time.  
**Sheldon:** Leonard has a lady over.  
**Howard:** Yeah, right... Your grandmother back in town?  
**Leonard:** No. And she's not a lady. She's just a new neighbor.  
**Howard:** Hang go, there really is a lady here? And you want us out because you're anticipating coitus?  
**Leonard:** I’m not anticipating coitus.  
**Howard:** So she's available for coitus?  
**Leonard:** Can we please just stop saying "coitus"?  
**Sheldon:** Technically, that would be "coitus interruptus".  
**Penny:** Hey, is there a trick to getting it to switch from tub to shower...?  Oh hi, sorry. Hello.  
**Howard:** Enchant? Mademoiselle.（法语） Howard Wolowitz, Caltech Department of applied physics. You may be familiar with some of my work. It's currently orbiting jupiter's largest moon, taking high-resolution digital photographs. 
**Penny:** Penny. I work at the cheesecake factory.  
**Leonard:** I'll show you the trick with the shower.  
**Howard:** "Bonne Douche"（法语）.  
**Penny:** I'm sorry?  
**Howard:** It's french for "good shower".  It's a sentiment I can express in six languages.  
**Leonard:** Save it for your blog, howard.  
**Howard:** 洗个痛快澡！  
**Leonard:** All right. There is goes. It sticks. I'm sorry.  
**Penny:** Okay, thanks.  
**Leonard:** You're welcome. You're just gonna to step right... Okay, I'll... 
**Penny:** Hey, Leonard.  
**Leonard:** The hair products are sheldon's.  
**Penny:** Okay... Can I ask you a favor?  
**Leonard:** A favor? Sure, you can ask me a favor. I would do you a favor for you.    
**Penny:** It's okay if you say no.  
**Leonard:** Oh, I'll probably say yes.  
**Penny:** It's just not the kind of thing you ask a guy you just met.  
**Leonard:** Wow...  

#### 【单词释义】

quantum: n.量子  
mechanics: n.力学  
string: n.弦，绳子，一带，一串  
theory: n.理论  
string theory: n.弦理论  
doodle: n.涂鸦  
edge: n.边缘  
spoof: n.恶作剧，滑稽模仿  
approximation n.近似值，估算  
impressive: adj.令人印象深刻的，令人赞叹的  
holy smokes: 天呀（惊叹）  
derivative: n.导数，衍生品  
restatement: n.重申，再次申明  
stuff: n.东西  
scribble: v.乱画，n.胡乱写的东西  
MIT: n.麻省理工大学  
dimension: n.维度，方面，侧面  
universe: n.宇宙  
radiator:  n.散热器，暖气片  
remain: v.保持  
perspiration: n.出汗，排汗  
cross: v.交叉  
breeze: n.微风  
discourage: v.阻碍  
conversation: n.沟通，交流  
parallax: n.视差  
distortion: n.失真，扭曲  
boggle: n.拼字游戏  
negative: adj.负面的，消极的  
implication: n.含义，意味  
regular: adj.正常的，常规的  
Sagittarius: n.射手座  
participate: v.参加，参与  
mass: adj.群众的；n.块，堆，大多数  
cultural: adj.文化的  
delusion: n.错觉，妄想，欺骗  
apparent: adj.表面的  
arbitrarily: adj.任意的  
defined: v.定义  
constellation: n.星座，一系列，一群  
occasional: adj.偶尔的  
steak: n.牛排  
corn: n.玉米，谷物  
sort of: 有点  
cheesecake: n.起司蛋糕  
lactose: n.乳糖  
intolerant: adj.不耐受的，过敏的，不容忍的  
screenplay: n.剧本  
sensitive: adj.敏感的，多愁善感的  
jerk: n.混蛋，急拉，猛推；v.急拉，猛推  
pathetic: adj.可怜的  
cheating: v.欺骗，不忠  
gut: n.消化道，肠胃，肚子，胆量；v.损毁内部  
paradox: n.悖论  
mess: n.混乱，脏乱，杂乱；v.弄脏，弄乱  
gross: adj.令人不快的，令人恶心的  
weird: adj.奇怪的，奇异的；n.命运，宿命  
alzheimer: n.老年痴呆症  
episode: n.插曲，片段    
rip: v.撕裂，拉开  
carve: v.雕刻，把...（熟肉）切成块  
exactly: adv.到底，准确地，确切地  
accomplish: v.完成  
species: n.种，物种  
engage: v.吸引住，从事，尽力理解  
hypotheticals: n.假设  
carnal: adj.肉体地，肉欲的，性欲的  
briefly: adj.短暂的  
hinder: v.阻碍  
conditioner: n.护发素  
creepy: adj.令人毛骨悚然的  
anticipate: v.预期，预料，期望  
coitus: v.性交  
coitus interruptus: n.体外射精  
trick: n.戏法，特技，手段，方法  
tub: n.盆，桶  
orbit: v.围绕...运动  
jupiter: n.木星  
resolution: n.分辨率  
digital: adj.数字的  
sentiment: n.情绪，观点，看法，祝词  
favor: n.喜好，善行，恩惠  


### Section 4

#### 【原文】

#### 【单词释义】


